docs: add a UDPIngress guide (#3123)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/kubernetes-ingress-controller/2.0.x/guides/using-udpingress.md

using the [Helm Chart][chart]. If you have deployed the KIC in another fashion, you
may need to make some manual adjustments to some of the provided instructions.

[dns]:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1035
[kubedns]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/
[pods]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/
[chart]:https://github.com/kong/charts

## Installation

Please follow the [deployment](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/{{page.kong_version}}/deployment/overview) documentation to install
the {{site.kic_product_name}} on your Kubernetes cluster.

> **Note**: This feature works with Kong versions FIXME and above.

> **Note**: This feature is available in Controller versions 2.0.0 and above.

## Creating a Namespace

For this guide we'll create a namespace just for testing DNS services and `UDPIngress`.

The following manifest can be applied to the cluster to create the namespace:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: udpingress-example
```

Or you can simply use the shorthand version with `kubectl`:

```shell
$ kubectl create namespace udpingress-example
```

> 

Author: Changed in 9d4f5af99201d9ff45b71705d220b595226c279f

This namespace will be referenced in the upcoming sections, and when you're done testing
you can delete it.

## Deploying CoreDNS

For this example, we will deploy a default CoreDNS server that will do nothing more
than serve up DNS requests.

First we're going to need to configure CoreDNS with a [Core File][corefile] in order for
it to properly serve DNS requests:

> ```yaml

Author: Changed in 9d4f5af99201d9ff45b71705d220b595226c279f

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: coredns
  namespace: udpingress-example
data:
  Corefile: |-
    .:53 {
        errors
        health {
           lameduck 5s
        }
        ready
        kubernetes cluster.local in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa {
           pods insecure
           fallthrough in-addr.arpa ip6.arpa
           ttl 30
        }
        forward . /etc/resolv.conf {
           max_concurrent 1000
        }
        cache 30
        loop
        reload
        loadbalance
    }
```

This configuration is basic and in practice causes all DNS requests sent to
our CoreDNS pods to forward to the [nameservers][nameservers] present in
`/etc/resolv.conf` (by default this will point to the standard `kube-dns`
service provided by the cluster).

Save the this [ConfigMap][cfgmap] as `corefile.yaml` and apply it:

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f corefile.yaml
```

> Once that's complete we're ready for the [Deployment][deployment] manifest:

Author: Changed in 9d4f5af99201d9ff45b71705d220b595226c279f

          defaultMode: 420
          items:
          - key: Corefile
            path: Corefile
          name: coredns
        name: config-volume
```

Note that this `Deployment` mounts the `corefile` configuration data
we created above into the pods so that CoreDNS can load them.

Save this file to `coredns-deployment.yaml` and apply it:

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f coredns-deployment.yaml
```

Shortly thereafter the pods should start running (see `kubectl get pods`)
and we can move on to exposing the pods via `Services` and `UDPIngress`.

[corefile]:https://coredns.io/manual/toc/#configuration
[nameservers]:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1035#section-6
[cfgmap]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/
[deployment]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/

## Exposing CoreDNS via Service

A Kubernetes [Service][svc] is one of the fundamental network abstraction layer
that allows you to load balance traffic to pods in the cluster. `Services` are
ultimately the DNS names that the Kong Gateway will be routing our UDP traffic to.

Exposing a `Deployment` via a service is easy, here's the manifest which exposes

> the CoreDNS `Deployment` we made in the previous section:

Author: Changed in 9d4f5af99201d9ff45b71705d220b595226c279f

    protocol: UDP
```

Once you've made the necessary configurations you can apply your changes:

```
$ helm upgrade --namespace <NAMESPACE> --version <CHART_VERSION> -f values.yaml <RELEASE_NAME> kong/kong
```

Replace `<NAMESPACE>`, `<CHART_VERSION>` and `<RELEASE_NAME>` with the values you deployed Kong with.

Alternatively if you are using only command line flags to deploy and manage Kong
the same configuration can be achieved with flags:

```shell
$ helm upgrade --namespace <NAMESPACE> --version <CHART_VERSION> <RELEASE_NAME> kong/kong \
  --set "udpProxy.enabled=true" \
  --set "udpProxy.type=LoadBalancer" \
  --set "udpProxy.stream[0].containerPort=9999"
  --set "udpProxy.stream[0].servicePort=9999"
  --set "udpProxy.stream[0].protocol=UDP"
```

Wait for the `LoadBalancer` service to be ready for the Gateway (see `kubectl get services`)
and once it's up Kong is ready to serve UDP traffic on port `9999` external to the cluster
using `UDPIngress` resources.

## Deploying UDPIngress

Now that Kong is listening on `9999` we can create a `UDPIngress` resource which will attach
our CoreDNS service to that port so we can make DNS requests to it from outside the cluster.

> 

Author: Changed in 9d4f5af99201d9ff45b71705d220b595226c279f

```yaml
apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1beta1
kind: UDPIngress
metadata:
  name: minudp
  namespace: udpingress-example
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
spec:
  rules:
  - backend:
      serviceName: coredns
      servicePort: 53
    port: 9999
```

The above binds the Kong Gateway port `9999` to the `Service` port `53` for our DNS server.

Save the file as `coredns-udpingress.yaml` and apply it:

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f coredns-udpingress.yaml
```

We can now make DNS requests via Kong.

## Verification

The exercise is complete and all that's left to do is verify that everything is working
by making a DNS request to our CoreDNS server.

This example assumes you have the `dig` command available on your local system, but if
you don't look to your operating system documentation for a similar DNS lookup tool.

Firstly you'll need to retrieve the IP address of the UDP load balancer service that we
configured in previous sections:

```shell

> $ export KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT="$(kubectl -n <NAMESPACE> get service <RELEASE_NAME>-kong-udp-proxy \
>     -o=go-template='{{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress}}{{.ip}}{{end}}')"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT="$(kubectl -n {NAMESPACE} get service {RELEASE_NAME}-kong-udp-proxy \
    -o=go-template='{% raw %}{{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress}}{{.ip}}{{end}}{% endraw %}')"
```
In Jekyll, `{{ }}` refer to variables, so it's trying to parse the tag and not getting anything. These `{% raw %}` tags tell Jekyll to read them as plaintext instead, which is what we want so they display properly.

Here's what it's currently generating:
![Screen Shot 2021-08-23 at 2 03 45 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54370747/130519158-8b6ce691-6c32-44c8-af05-67b6d0547266.png)

```

> Note that in the above you'll need to replace `<NAMESPACE>` and `<RELEASE_NAME>` with the values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `{NAMESPACE}` and `{RELEASE_NAME}` with the values
```

you originally provided to `helm install` in your own environment.

> Now that we've stored the IP in the environment variable `KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT` we can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've stored the IP in the environment variable `KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT`, you can use
```

that with `dig` to make a DNS lookup through the CoreDNS server we set up and exposed
using `UDPIngress`:

```shell
$ dig @${KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT} konghq.com
;; ANSWER SECTION:
konghq.com.		30	IN	A	34.83.126.248

;; Query time: 60 msec
;; SERVER: <KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT>#9999
;; WHEN: Thu Aug 19 08:39:16 EDT 2021
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 77

> ```

Reviewer: Split the command from the response:

{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Command %}
```shell
dig @${KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT} konghq.com
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Response %}
```shell
;; ANSWER SECTION:
konghq.com.		30	IN	A	34.83.126.248
;; Query time: 60 msec
;; SERVER: <KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT>#9999
;; WHEN: Thu Aug 19 08:39:16 EDT 2021
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 77
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

Author: Changed in 9d4f5af99201d9ff45b71705d220b595226c279f

> Verify that the `<KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT>` in the `SERVER` section of the response above ends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the `{KONG_UDP_ENDPOINT}` in the `SERVER` section of the response above ends
```

---

> title: UDPIngress with Kong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: UDPIngress with Kong Gateway
```

Author: :+1: fixed in 1513aa547490817ee8ea05712cda81025c216b91

---

This guide walks you through deploying a simple [Service][svc] that
listens for [UDP datagrams][udp], and exposes this service outside
of the cluster using Kong Gateway.

[svc]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/
[udp]:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc768

## Overview

Some of the most common UDP-based services available on the internet are
[DNS servers][dns]. These servers are an important part of the infrastructure
of the internet, and are also [present by default][kubedns] in Kubernetes
clusters to allow [Pods][pods] within the cluster to look up other pods' IP
addresses by name.

For this example, you will:

> * Deploy your own [CoreDNS][coredns] server, which is the default

Reviewer: This shortlink doesn't resolve to anything in the output. Was this supposed to be [kubedns], or is there another link missing?

Author: I missed the link, good catch thank you now fixed in 1513aa547490817ee8ea05712cda81025c216b91

DNS server Kubernetes uses for internal DNS
* Deploy a CoreDNS `Pod` and `Service`
* Route UDP traffic to it using `UDPIngress`

This guide assumes that you've deployed the Kong Kubernetes Ingress Controller (KIC)
using the [Helm Chart][chart]. If you have deployed the KIC in a different way, you
may need to make some manual adjustments to some of the provided instructions.

[dns]:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1035
[kubedns]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/
[pods]:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/
[chart]:https://github.com/kong/charts

## Installation

Follow the [deployment](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/{{page.kong_version}}/deployment/overview) documentation to install
the {{site.kic_product_name}} on your Kubernetes cluster.

> **Note**: This feature is compatible with:

> > * Kong Gateway versions FIXME and above.

Reviewer: Do we know which versions of the gateway this is compatible with yet, or does that still need to be tested?

Author: requires 2.0.0+, fix in 1513aa547490817ee8ea05712cda81025c216b91 :+1:

> * Kong Ingress Controller versions 2.0.0 and above.

## Create a namespace

First, create a namespace for testing DNS services and `UDPIngress`.

{% navtabs %}

> {% navtabs Manifest %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% navtab Manifest %}
```
One more (reviewing mid-meeting is error-prone...)

Apply the following manifest to the cluster to create the namespace:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: udpingress-example
```

> {% endnavtag %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endnavtab %}
```
Typo here, probably mine.
